document statements being searched for as expressions (#61)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/writing-rules/pattern-syntax.md

## Statements types

> Many programming languages differentiate between expressions and statements. Those are 2 different things. Expressions can appear inside if conditions, in function call arguments, etc. Statements can not appear everywhere; they are sequence of operations (with ; as a separator/terminator) or special control flow constructs (if, while, etc.).

Reviewer: I would put this chapter below, next to "Statements as expressions"

> Semgrep handles statements differently from other expressions like imports. For example, the pattern `foo` will match these statements:

Reviewer: Actually import are not really expressions

Reviewer: maybe "from other expressions like additions or function calls." ?

Reviewer: actually the whole paragraph confuses statements and expressions I think, partly because in Python you don't need the semicolon.
The 3 things below are really expressions, not statements. 
They are statements when they are used in a sequence of operations, but bar + foo is weird to use in a sequence (unless you put a 'return' before). cc @mschwager who might have written that.

import foo
```

### Statements as expressions

> 

Reviewer: I would put the little paragraph on expr vs statements here.
Then you could add:
"Note that in some programming languages such as Python, which does not use semicolons as a separator or terminator, things are even more confusing, but indentations in Python matters, and a newline after foo() is really the same than foo(); in other programming languages such as C."

`foo()` is an expression

`foo();` is a statement.

> If youre search pattern is a statment, Semgrep will automatically try to search for it as _both_ an expression and a statement. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your search pattern is a statement, Semgrep will automatically try to search for it as _both_ an expression and a statement. 
```

When you write the expression `foo()` in a pattern, Semgrep will visit every expression and sub-expression in your program and try to find a match. 

> What about a statement like `foo();`? (Note that `foo()` is confusingly called an expression statement, but it is first a statement). Many programmers don't really see the difference between `foo()` and `foo();`. This is why when one looks for `foo()`; Semgrep thinks the user wants to match statements like `a = foo();`, or `print(foo());`.

Reviewer 2: >What about a statement like `foo();`? (Note that `foo()` is confusingly called an expression statement, but it is first a statement). Many programmers don't really see the difference between `foo()` and `foo();`. This is why when one looks for `foo()`; Semgrep thinks the user wants to match statements like `a = foo();`, or `print(foo());`.

Is the semicolon in the last sentence (just after `foo()`) needed? I think it's throwing me off here.

Reviewer: In some languages such as C yes, you need the semicolon. In python no, but you need a newline, which is treated internally like a semicolon, as a way to terminate a statement.
